# ISM-2020-2021
#   Stock Market Predictive Analytics Project for ISM
As a Machine Learning Engineer, it is key to know the basics of Data Science. We can easily assume that goals created by ML Engineers will greatly differ from those created by a Data Scientist, and of course, the distinction continues with increasingly specialized branches of the field such as Deep Learning and Artificial Intelligence. Therefore, I believe that my Original Work shall encompass the Data Science topics with implementing the ML concepts.  I propose to create a Data Science project that implements ML models to help predict the stock market prices. 

As a person who has recently gotten interested in stocks, it was quite difficult to predict the stock prices and whether I should buy, sell, or hold them. As I researched the news, previous stock prices of the companies, and what I should do with my stocks to make them profitable, I seemed to have gotten more confused than what I had started with. Of course, there are multiple ways to analyze a company's finances and also a bit of instinct for investing, but I never found something that predicted the stock prices in a much more intuitive way.

My proposal is this: Using the core Data Science and ML algorithms, I will develop an accurate and intuitive way to recognize and predict the stock prices of the companies, both showing the predictive price and whether it’s a hold, buy, or sell. This means that I will be creating a standardized evaluation of any public company that is on the stock market, regardless of the size of the company and its stock. By using the libraries provided by NumPy, there may be a decreased need of making raw code which would allow me to focus on the visualization part of the numbers. I hope to create a stock prediction with high-level accuracy, but I am not sure of how to measure the accuracy currently. That is something I will look into with my mentor.

It does seem confusing at first, nevertheless, formulating this idea of creating a stock predictor makes perfect sense to me. It will be extremely complicated and difficult to achieve, but I know I can do it. There are certain tactics I will use to succeed in this idea, including conducting particularly rigorous research on financial terms, ML concepts, basic data-preprocessing, and other advanced Data Science concepts. The research is going to be more intense than what I have previously done. Gathering the data and cleansing is going to take a long time because I am not aware of the process, so this is where my mentor can guide me. Once I have collected and processed data for the goal-focused aspect of building ML models, then I can apply different algorithms like Clustering and K-means to analyze the data. Additionally, I will be using Tableau or other data visualizations to make it easier to understand for visual learners like me. If all goes well in my endeavors, I will design and ultimately develop an application that can show the stock predictions and the type of stock it is (buy, sell or hold) in a more intuitive way.

By enabling users to examine and understand the stock prices in a more visual way, I would be able to help the people to understand the companies they are investing in. It is my mission to create a simple, accurate, and intuitive system to predict stocks. If my work is successful, it can aid many people (especially beginners) to predict stock prices before they invest.
